The goal of this CT-MAR Challenge is to distribute a clinically representative benchmark for evaluation of CT MAR algorithms. Metal artifact reduction is one of the more challenging and long-standing problems in CT imaging (L. Gjesteby et al, “Metal Artifact Reduction in CT: Where Are We After Four Decades?”, IEEE Access 4 (2016): 5826-5849). The application of DL to MAR has recently become an active research area. In the presence of highly attenuating objects such as dental fillings, hip prostheses, spinal screws/rods, and gold fiducial markers, CT images are corrupted by streak artifacts, often making the images non-diagnostic. Existing CT MAR studies tend to define their own test cases and evaluation metrics, making it impossible to objectively compare the performance of different MAR methods in a comprehensive and objective fashion. There is a major need for a universal CT MAR image quality benchmarks to evaluate the clinical impact of new MAR methods in a wide range of applications and compare them to state-of-the-art MAR methods.

This 2D MAR challenge can be treated as a missing data problem in the sinogram domain or as an artifact suppression challenge in the image-domain. A reconstruction routine will be provided to convert sinograms to images and a reprojection routine will be provided to generate sinograms from images. Sinograms with and without metal objects, as well as images with and without metal artifacts will be provided as training pairs. A smaller dataset (inputs only) will be provided for scoring of the final results.